In this video, we'll discuss how to create
a resume that is tailored to the job
you're applying for.
Note that a resume is sometimes called
a Curriculum Vitae, or CV, for short.
Remember that it's okay if you don't
have any cybersecurity experience.
This certificate program
has covered key skills and
concepts that employers are looking for in
an entry-level security analyst position.
You can mention all that you've learned
in this program on your resume,
including programming languages, such as
Python and SQL, and Linux line-command.
You can also share your understanding of
what it means to have a security mindset,
your knowledge of standard frameworks and
controls, like the NIST CSF and CIA Triad
model, as well as your familiarity with
how to use SIEM tools and packet sniffers.
It's also possible that some of your
earlier job experiences allowed you to
develop knowledge and skills that
are transferable to a security role.
These skills could include being
detail oriented, collaborative, and
having strong written and
verbal communication skills.
Here's an example of a resume.
You'll want to start with your
name at the top of the resume,
followed by your professional title.
Your title could be something
like 'Security Analyst' or
a title that matches the position
you're applying for.
You'll also want to include at
least one way that employers or recruiters
can contact you, for example,
an email address or phone number.
After your name and title,
you'll provide a summary statement.
This section should be brief,
just one or two sentences related to
your strengths and relevant skills.
Make sure the statement includes
specific words from the responsibility
section of the job description.
You can include something like this in
your statement:
I am a motivated security analyst seeking an
entry-level cybersecurity position to apply my skills
in network security, security policy,
and organizational risk management.
Following your name and
summary statement is the skills section.
This is a bulleted list of the skills
you've learned in this program that
are related to the position.
Employers usually like to know about
your previous work experience.
In the experience section,
you'll list your work history.
Underneath each job entry,
provide a list of the skills and
responsibilities you performed.
It's a good idea to start each
bullet with a verb and, if possible,
details that quantify an accomplishment.
For example: 'Collaborated with a team
of six to develop training for
more than 25 company employees.'
'Try to highlight the security or
technology related skills and
knowledge that you have, based on
your experiences in previous jobs
and this certificate program.'
The next section of the resume lists
your education and certifications.
Start with the most recent
education you've completed,
including certifications, trade schools,
online courses, or college experience.
Also include the names of sites and
organizations that issued your
certifications and schools you attended.
List any subjects you studied related
to the job you're applying for.
If you're currently enrolled in school or
a certification program but
haven't graduated, note: in progress.
As you develop your resume,
keep a couple of things in mind.
Make sure there are no spelling or
grammatical errors in your resume before
sending it to your potential employer.
Also note that resumes are typically
about two pages long, and
list only your last 10 years or
less of work experience.
Resumes can be created using word
processing applications like
Google Docs or OpenOffice.
However, you might find some simple but
professional resume templates
online to get you started.
To find them, type: free resume template
or a similar search term
into your internet browser.
If you use a template, be sure to replace
all of the prefilled text with YOUR
information and qualifications.
There is so much to consider
when creating your resume.
But what we covered today
will help you get started.
Coming up,
we'll explore the interview process.